>> Mike North: So
the way we typically generate this
kind of thing is we use OpenSSL.
You probably have a version of
OpenSSL on your operating system.
It is the most used library for
doing this kind of thing and
you want to use a library in this case.
Do not try to invent your
own encryption algorithm,
do not invent your own hashing algorithms,
this is like an area of code you
don't want to play amateur with.
Simply because there are known documented
easy mistakes and you're gonna have to
go through like the first 15 years of
hardening the way this should work.
Leave this stuff to experts,
consume it from the library.
OpenSSL's are very tried and
tested library.
They did have an issue called
heart bleed a couple years ago.
This is a zero day bug I believe,
where people just had to patch a whole
bunch of crap really, really quickly.
But it still is the best we've got here.
So, what you need to know is
it's a command line driven tool.
There is no good UI I'm aware
of that sits on top of OpenSSL.
Typical thing you do is you just learn
to use a couple different commands and
I’ve given them to you.
So what were gonna do
in this next exercise
it involves generating a certificate,
so if you'tr tuning out pay attention.
The four steps here, number one you
want to generate a private key.
And this is the thing that you
would never let anyone else see.
This is what allows you to
decode messages that are sent to you and
hidden for your eyes only.
Then we're going to generate
a public key from the private key.
And this only has the power
to write encrypted messages.
You're gonna take that private key and
you're also gonna make something
called a certificate signing request.
Think of this as the precursor of that
certificate that identifies your domain.
And the last step is signing
the certificate with your private key, so
this creates what is called
a self-signed certificate.
Your system is not going
to trust it by default,
I'll show you how can add
it to your trust store.
Keep in mind, see that -days 3 in the 4th
step on the 1st line of the 4th step.
So you want to, whenever you're playing
around with this kind of stuff, just for
added safety,
make really short-lived certificates.
That just, even if you trust manually.
Like, in the next step, we're gonna
make a certificate that lasts one day.
By tomorrow, it won't work anymore.
So if I'm tricking you and
stealing stuff, I better do it quick.
>> Mike North: Typically if you were
getting this certificate signed by
a certificate authority, like a trusted
root like Komodo or like Let's Encrypt,
this last step would be something that
they would do with their private key.
And in doing so, they're basically saying
this person has gone through
the appropriate validation procedure,
I hereby sign off on this request
to generate a certificate.
Please consider it valid, and
I am hereby attaching my seal on this,
I am the one who approved it.